
# Processing-Foundation-GSoC

This repository is a central hub for all resources, project ideas, and guidelines related to the Google Summer of Code (GSoC) program with Processing Foundation as the mentor organisation.

🌸 Have questions about the organization or the projects? Check out the [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)](https://github.com/processing/Processing-Foundation-GSoC/wiki/FAQs-(2026)).

🌸 Have more questions? Checj the [GSoC 2026 Discourse thread](https://discourse.processing.org/t/updates-about-gsoc-2026-org-application-in-progress/47450)!

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> Pull Requests submitted to this repository will most likely be closed if they are made by anyone who is not a GSoC Processing Foundation mentor, org admin, contributor, or alumn. Thank you for understanding!

## How to Apply as a Student/Contributor for GSoC 2026

The [deadlines for GSoC 2026](https://opensource.googleblog.com/2025/12/shape-future-with-google-summer-of-code.html) have been announced, and Processing Foundation has been accepted as a mentor org 🎉 The applications will open on March 15th; for now, contributor applications are **not** open yet, but you can already get started. Here is the [2026 project ideas list](https://github.com/processing/Processing-Foundation-GSoC/wiki/Project-Ideas-List-(GSoC-2026))—the rest of the wiki is also a very useful resource to look through! [Stay tuned on Discourse!](https://discourse.processing.org/t/updates-about-gsoc-2026-org-application-in-progress/47450)

For more information, read the [Google Summer of Code FAQ](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/faq).

## Discover previous GSoC projects at the Processing Foundation
This year is the **fourteenth year** that Processing Foundation participates GSoC! We recommend you review some of these reports to gain valuable insights in the kind of projects we support. This will help you craft more effective proposals for this year's GSoC at the Processing Foundation.

> [!NOTE]
> So far, 115 projects have been completed as part of GSoC with Processing Foundation 🎉

* [GSoC 2025 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2025-gsoc-wrapup.md)
* [GSoC 2023 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2023-gsoc-wrapup.md)
* [GSoC 2022 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2022-gsoc-wrapup.md)
* [GSoC 2021 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2021-gsoc-wrapup.md)
* [GSoC 2020 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2020-gsoc-wrapup.md)
* [GSoC 2019 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2019-gsoc-wrapup.md)
* [GSoC 2018 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2018-gsoc-wrapup.md)
* [GSoC 2017 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2017-gsoc-wrapup.md)
* [GSoC 2015 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2015-gsoc-wrapup.md)
* [GSoC 2014 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2014-gsoc-wrapup.md)
* [GSoC 2013 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2013-gsoc-wrapup.md)
* [GSoC 2012 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2012-gsoc-wrapup.md)
* [GSoC 2011 wrap-up post](./docs/wrapups/2011-gsoc-wrapup.md)

## AI text generation policy

Using LLM-based generative AI tools like ChatGPT can enhance your writing by refining language and structure. However, the knowledge, ideas, and reasoning in your proposal must originate from _you_. AI serves as a support tool, not a substitute for human creativity. Proposals generated entirely by AI will not be considered. We value your originality and problem understanding. Any proposal submitted using AI tools should clearly indicate what part is your work and what part was enhanced or generated by AI.
